README.md, before:

# CoreClaw

A minimal AI Agent that can handle toolcalling, powered by Large Language Models. It provides a single tool—`bash`—and all capabilities are built on top of it.

CoreClaw supports multiple providers (OpenAI, Anthropic, DeepSeek, ZAI, and any OpenAI-compatible or Anthropic-compatible server like Ollama) via a simple CLI interface.

For this project, simplicity is more important than efficiency.

## Installation

```bash
go install github.com/wallacegibbon/coreclaw@latest
```

Or build from source:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/wallacegibbon/coreclaw.git
cd coreclaw
go build
```

## Usage

All configuration must be specified via command line flags:

```bash
# Local Ollama OpenAI-compatible server
coreclaw --type openai --base-url http://localhost:11434/v1 --api-key xxx --model llama3 "hello"

# Local Ollama Anthropic-compatible server
coreclaw --type anthropic --base-url http://localhost:11434 --api-key=xxx --model gpt-oss:20b "hello"

# MiniMax (Anthropic-compatible)
coreclaw --type anthropic --base-url $MINIMAXI_API_URL --api-key $MINIMAXI_API_KEY --model MiniMax-M2.5 "hello"

# DeepSeek (OpenAI-compatible)
coreclaw --type openai --base-url $DEEPSEEK_API_URL --api-key $DEEPSEEK_API_KEY --model deepseek-chat "hello"

# ZAI (OpenAI-compatible)
coreclaw --type openai --base-url $ZAI_API_URL --api-key $ZAI_API_KEY --model GLM-4.7 "hello"
```

Running with skills
```bash
coreclaw --type anthropic --base-url http://localhost:11434 --api-key=xxx --model gpt-oss:20b --skill ~/playground/coreclaw/misc/samples/skills/
```

## Flags

- `-type string` - Provider type: `anthropic` or `openai` (required)
- `-base-url string` - API endpoint URL (required)
- `-api-key string` - API key (required)
- `-model string` - Model name to use
- `-version` - Show version information
- `-help` - Show help information
- `-debug-api` - Show raw API requests and responses
- `-file string` - Read prompt from file
- `-system string` - Override system prompt
- `-skill string` - Skills directory path

## Features

- Execute bash commands through the AI agent
- Multi-step conversations with tool calls
- Token usage tracking
- Error handling for command execution
- Multi-provider support (OpenAI, Anthropic, DeepSeek, ZAI)
- Single-prompt and interactive modes
- Real-time streaming output
- Color-styled output
- Custom system prompts
- Read prompts from files
- API debug mode for HTTP requests and responses
- Skills system (agentskills.io compatible)

## Project Status

See [STATE.md](STATE.md) for detailed implementation status and architecture.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Refactor tools: remove list_files and edit_file, add write_file
- Remove list_files tool
- Remove edit_file tool (simpler to just use write_file for full overwrite)
- Add write_file tool for creating/replacing files
- Update tool ordering in docs: read_file, write_file, activate_skill, bash
- Add write_file to tool call display
- Update all documentation to reflect current tools

README.md, after:

# CoreClaw

A minimal AI Agent that can handle toolcalling, powered by Large Language Models. It provides multiple tools for file operations and shell execution.

CoreClaw supports multiple providers (OpenAI, Anthropic, DeepSeek, ZAI, and any OpenAI-compatible or Anthropic-compatible server like Ollama) via a simple CLI interface.

For this project, simplicity is more important than efficiency.

## Installation

```bash
go install github.com/wallacegibbon/coreclaw@latest
```

Or build from source:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/wallacegibbon/coreclaw.git
cd coreclaw
go build
```

## Usage

All configuration must be specified via command line flags:

```bash
# Local Ollama OpenAI-compatible server
coreclaw --type openai --base-url http://localhost:11434/v1 --api-key xxx --model llama3 "hello"

# Local Ollama Anthropic-compatible server
coreclaw --type anthropic --base-url http://localhost:11434 --api-key=xxx --model gpt-oss:20b "hello"

# MiniMax (Anthropic-compatible)
coreclaw --type anthropic --base-url $MINIMAXI_API_URL --api-key $MINIMAXI_API_KEY --model MiniMax-M2.5 "hello"

# DeepSeek (OpenAI-compatible)
coreclaw --type openai --base-url $DEEPSEEK_API_URL --api-key $DEEPSEEK_API_KEY --model deepseek-chat "hello"

# ZAI (OpenAI-compatible)
coreclaw --type openai --base-url $ZAI_API_URL --api-key $ZAI_API_KEY --model GLM-4.7 "hello"
```

Running with skills
```bash
coreclaw --type anthropic --base-url http://localhost:11434 --api-key=xxx --model gpt-oss:20b --skill ~/playground/coreclaw/misc/samples/skills/
```

## Flags

- `-type string` - Provider type: `anthropic` or `openai` (required)
- `-base-url string` - API endpoint URL (required)
- `-api-key string` - API key (required)
- `-model string` - Model name to use
- `-version` - Show version information
- `-help` - Show help information
- `-debug-api` - Show raw API requests and responses
- `-file string` - Read prompt from file
- `-system string` - Override system prompt
- `-skill string` - Skills directory path

## Features

- Tools: read_file, write_file, activate_skill, bash
- Multi-step conversations with tool calls
- Token usage tracking
- Error handling for command execution
- Multi-provider support (OpenAI, Anthropic, DeepSeek, ZAI)
- Single-prompt and interactive modes
- Real-time streaming output
- Color-styled output
- Custom system prompts
- Read prompts from files
- API debug mode for HTTP requests and responses
- Skills system (agentskills.io compatible)

## Project Status

See [STATE.md](STATE.md) for detailed implementation status and architecture.

## License

MIT
