STATE.md, before:

# CoreClaw Project Status

## Overview
CoreClaw is a minimal AI Agent that can handle toolcalling. We only provide one tool: `posix_shell`.
All skills are based on this only one tool. And all functionalities are built by skills.

For this project, simplicity is more important than efficiency.

## Implementation Status

### Completed
- ✅ Go module initialized (github.com/wallacegibbon/coreclaw)
- ✅ fantasy dependency added (v0.8.0)
- ✅ Direct stdin reading for terminal input
- ✅ Basic agent structure with OpenAI provider
- ✅ Shell tool implementation with `fantasy.NewAgentTool`
- ✅ Command-line interface with prompt input
- ✅ Tool calling support with posix_shell command execution
- ✅ Tool result display
- ✅ Usage statistics (input/output/total tokens)
- ✅ Multi-provider support (OpenAI, Anthropic, DeepSeek, ZAI)
- ✅ Color styling with ANSI escape codes
  - AI responses: bold white (#cdd6f4)
  - User prompts: blue (#89b4fa)
  - Debug/info messages: dim gray (#6c7086)
  - Applied to both single-prompt and interactive modes
  - Uses raw ANSI codes for lightweight output without padding
- ✅ CLI flags for version and help information
- ✅ Custom system prompts (--system) to override default behavior
- ✅ README.md with comprehensive documentation
- ✅ Readline library integration for proper terminal input handling
  - Automatic TTY detection
  - Command history support (~/.coreclaw_history, max 1000 entries)
  - Proper backspace/delete for all character encodings
  - Ctrl-C interruption support
- ✅ Real-time streaming output
  - All text (including thinking) displays immediately
  - Interleaved with posix_shell command outputs
- ✅ API debug mode (--debug-api)
  - Logs raw API requests and responses to stderr
  - Shows HTTP method, URL, headers (with sensitive data masked), and body
  - Colors request messages in green and response messages in purple
  - Useful for troubleshooting API communication issues
- ✅ Prompt formatting with cyan brackets, green usernames, and consistent background
  - Format: «USER@LOCALHOSTNAME — MODEL@API_URL»
  - Background color applied to bracketed section only
  - Newline before green > prompt character with single space
- ✅ Fixed prompt duplication bug
  - Separated bracketed status line from input prompt
  - Bracketed line prints once at session start
  - Input prompt shows green > with reset for clean input
- ✅ Shell command visibility
  - Commands printed when they start with arrow prefix (→)
  - Command text in green, arrow in dim color
  - Newlines and tabs escaped for clean single-line display
- ✅ Debug API filtering of empty SSE content chunks
  - Filters out empty delta content messages during streaming
  - Prevents log spam while maintaining normal SSE behavior
- ✅ Ctrl-C handling in interactive mode
  - Cancels unfinished requests when Ctrl-C is pressed
  - Does nothing (continues waiting) if no request is in progress (at the prompt)
  - Uses context cancellation to stop ongoing API calls
  - Displays "Request cancelled." message when a request is interrupted
  - Properly handles Ctrl-C to prevent process termination
- ✅ Refactored codebase for better maintainability
  - Extracted CLI flag parsing to `internal/config` package
  - Moved runner logic to `internal/adaptors/terminal.go`
  - Simplified main.go to ~80 lines of minimal glue code
- ✅ CLI-based provider configuration
  - All config via CLI flags: --type, --base-url, --api-key, --model
  - No environment variables or default configs
  - Supports anthropic and openai provider types
- ✅ Fixed tool_use messages being lost in conversation history
  - Changed Processor.ProcessPrompt to return assistant message including tool calls
  - Updated session to store full assistant message (text + tool calls) in history
  - Previously only text was stored, losing tool calls between requests
- ✅ Debug API now shows Anthropic content blocks
  - Added parsing for Anthropic streaming format (content as array)
  - Shows tool_use and thinking blocks in debug output
- ✅ Thinking/thinking content display for Anthropic-compatible APIs
  - Added OnReasoningDelta and OnReasoningEnd callbacks
  - Thinking displayed in dim color with newline after
- ✅ Text before tool calls displayed as thinking for OpenAI-compatible APIs
  - Text before first tool call shown in dim (thinking style)
  - Text after tool calls shown in bright
  - Added OnTextStart for clean formatting between responses
- ✅ Fixed thinking/reasoning content for OpenAI-compatible APIs
  - Use openaicompat provider for non-OpenAI URLs (Ollama, LM Studio, DeepSeek, etc.)
  - openaicompat has reasoning content hooks that the native openai provider lacks
  - Debug transport now shows thinking field in addition to content and tool_calls
- ✅ Simplified text display for OpenAI-compatible APIs
  - All text now shown bright (no thinking detection)
- ✅ Skills system based on agentskills.io specification
  - Skill discovery from directories with SKILL.md files
  - YAML frontmatter parsing (name, description, license, compatibility)
  - Progressive disclosure: metadata at startup, full content on activation
  - System prompt injection with XML format for available skills
  - Skill activation via Manager.ActivateSkill()
  - Test coverage for parsing, discovery, and activation
- ✅ IOStream abstraction layer
  - Input/Output interfaces in internal/stream/stream.go
  - TLV protocol (TagText='T', TagTool='t', TagReasoning='R', TagError='E', TagUsage='U', TagSystem='S')
  - Buffered reads/writes with Flush() method
- ✅ Adaptors in internal/adaptors/
  - terminal.go - Terminal adaptor connecting stdio to agent processor
  - websocket.go - WebSocket server with per-client sessions
  - colors.go - ANSI color styling
  - chat.html - Embedded chat UI
- ✅ coreclaw-web command
  - cmd/coreclaw-web/main.go entry point
  - Per-client independent agent sessions
  - Embedded chat UI (auto-served at /)
  - WebSocket endpoint at /ws
- ✅ Fixed WebSocket cancel button only working once
  - Read loop now signals cancel via channel instead of calling cancel directly
  - Main loop listens on cancel channel and calls the current cancel function
  - This ensures cancel always works regardless of context recreation

### Architecture
- **Provider Types**: `anthropic` (native Anthropic API), `openai` (OpenAI-compatible)
- **Tool**: posix_shell (executes shell commands)
- **Framework**: charm.land/fantasy
- **UI Styling**: Raw ANSI escape codes (lightweight, no padding)
- **Stream Protocol**: TLV (Tag-Length-Value) for structured output

### Code Structure
```
internal/
  agent/       - Agent processor for streaming responses
  adaptors/    - Terminal and WebSocket adaptors
  config/      - CLI flags and settings parsing
  debug/       - Debug HTTP transport for API debugging
  provider/    - Provider configuration (API keys, endpoints)
  skills/      - Skills system (discovery, parsing, activation)
  stream/      - IOStream interfaces and TLV protocol
  tools/       - Tool implementations (posix_shell, read_file, write_file, activate_skill)
cmd/coreclaw-web/       - coreclaw-web entry point
main.go        - coreclaw entry point
```

### Features
- Execute posix_shell commands through the AI agent
- Multi-step conversations with tool calls
- Token usage tracking
- Error handling for command execution
- CLI-based provider configuration (no env vars)
- CLI flags: --type, --base-url, --api-key, --model, --skill
- Provider types: anthropic, openai
- Color-coded output for better readability
- Command history for interactive sessions
- Direct stdin reading for terminal input
- Proper conversation history management for multi-turn tool calls
- IOStream abstraction with TLV protocol
- Web server with WebSocket support and chat UI

### Usage
```sh
# OpenAI API
./coreclaw --type openai --base-url https://api.openai.com/v1 --api-key $OPENAI_API_KEY --model gpt-4o

# Anthropic API
./coreclaw --type anthropic --base-url https://api.Anthropic.com --api-key $ANTHROPIC_API_KEY --model claude-sonnet-4-20250514

# Local AI server (e.g., Ollama)
./coreclaw --type openai --base-url http://localhost:11434/v1 --api-key xxx --model llama3

# Run with API debug
./coreclaw --debug-api --type openai --base-url https://api.openai.com/v1 --api-key $OPENAI_API_KEY --model gpt-4o

# Run with custom system prompt
./coreclaw --system "You are a code reviewer" --type openai --base-url https://api.openai.com/v1 --api-key $OPENAI_API_KEY --model gpt-4o

# Run interactively
./coreclaw --type openai --base-url https://api.openai.com/v1 --api-key $OPENAI_API_KEY --model gpt-4o

# Run with skills
./coreclaw --skill ./skills --type openai --base-url https://api.openai.com/v1 --api-key $OPENAI_API_KEY --model gpt-4o

# Show help
./coreclaw --help
```

### coreclaw-web (WebSocket Server)
```sh
# Start WebSocket server
./coreclaw-web --type openai --base-url https://api.openai.com/v1 --api-key $OPENAI_API_KEY --model gpt-4o

# Custom address
./coreclaw-web --type anthropic --base-url https://api.anthropic.com --api-key $ANTHROPIC_API_KEY --model claude-sonnet-4-20250514 --addr :9090

# Then open http://localhost:8080 in browser
# WebSocket endpoint: ws://localhost:8080/ws
```

## Next Steps
- Add more sophisticated skills built on posix_shell tool

Commit message:

Fix TagPromptStart handling in TUI output
Add TagPromptStart to isValidTag() switch statement so the TLV
message is properly processed instead of treated as raw text.

STATE.md, after:

# CoreClaw Project Status

## Overview
CoreClaw is a minimal AI Agent that can handle toolcalling. We only provide one tool: `posix_shell`.
All skills are based on this only one tool. And all functionalities are built by skills.

For this project, simplicity is more important than efficiency.

## Implementation Status

### Completed
- ✅ Go module initialized (github.com/wallacegibbon/coreclaw)
- ✅ fantasy dependency added (v0.8.0)
- ✅ Direct stdin reading for terminal input
- ✅ Basic agent structure with OpenAI provider
- ✅ Shell tool implementation with `fantasy.NewAgentTool`
- ✅ Command-line interface with prompt input
- ✅ Tool calling support with posix_shell command execution
- ✅ Tool result display
- ✅ Usage statistics (input/output/total tokens)
- ✅ Multi-provider support (OpenAI, Anthropic, DeepSeek, ZAI)
- ✅ Color styling with ANSI escape codes
  - AI responses: bold white (#cdd6f4)
  - User prompts: blue (#89b4fa)
  - Debug/info messages: dim gray (#6c7086)
  - Applied to both single-prompt and interactive modes
  - Uses raw ANSI codes for lightweight output without padding
- ✅ CLI flags for version and help information
- ✅ Custom system prompts (--system) to override default behavior
- ✅ README.md with comprehensive documentation
- ✅ Readline library integration for proper terminal input handling
  - Automatic TTY detection
  - Command history support (~/.coreclaw_history, max 1000 entries)
  - Proper backspace/delete for all character encodings
  - Ctrl-C interruption support
- ✅ Real-time streaming output
  - All text (including thinking) displays immediately
  - Interleaved with posix_shell command outputs
- ✅ API debug mode (--debug-api)
  - Logs raw API requests and responses to stderr
  - Shows HTTP method, URL, headers (with sensitive data masked), and body
  - Colors request messages in green and response messages in purple
  - Useful for troubleshooting API communication issues
- ✅ Prompt formatting with cyan brackets, green usernames, and consistent background
  - Format: «USER@LOCALHOSTNAME — MODEL@API_URL»
  - Background color applied to bracketed section only
  - Newline before green > prompt character with single space
- ✅ Fixed prompt duplication bug
  - Separated bracketed status line from input prompt
  - Bracketed line prints once at session start
  - Input prompt shows green > with reset for clean input
- ✅ Shell command visibility
  - Commands printed when they start with arrow prefix (→)
  - Command text in green, arrow in dim color
  - Newlines and tabs escaped for clean single-line display
- ✅ Debug API filtering of empty SSE content chunks
  - Filters out empty delta content messages during streaming
  - Prevents log spam while maintaining normal SSE behavior
- ✅ Ctrl-C handling in interactive mode
  - Cancels unfinished requests when Ctrl-C is pressed
  - Does nothing (continues waiting) if no request is in progress (at the prompt)
  - Uses context cancellation to stop ongoing API calls
  - Displays "Request cancelled." message when a request is interrupted
  - Properly handles Ctrl-C to prevent process termination
- ✅ Ctrl-G handling in TUI mode
  - Cancels current request when Ctrl-G is pressed
  - Works similar to the cancel button in WebSocket client
  - Context is automatically recreated after cancellation for subsequent requests
  - Displays "Request cancelled." message when interrupted
- ✅ Refactored codebase for better maintainability
  - Extracted CLI flag parsing to `internal/config` package
  - Moved runner logic to `internal/adaptors/terminal.go`
  - Simplified main.go to ~80 lines of minimal glue code
- ✅ CLI-based provider configuration
  - All config via CLI flags: --type, --base-url, --api-key, --model
  - No environment variables or default configs
  - Supports anthropic and openai provider types
- ✅ Fixed tool_use messages being lost in conversation history
  - Changed Processor.ProcessPrompt to return assistant message including tool calls
  - Updated session to store full assistant message (text + tool calls) in history
  - Previously only text was stored, losing tool calls between requests
- ✅ Debug API now shows Anthropic content blocks
  - Added parsing for Anthropic streaming format (content as array)
  - Shows tool_use and thinking blocks in debug output
- ✅ Thinking/thinking content display for Anthropic-compatible APIs
  - Added OnReasoningDelta and OnReasoningEnd callbacks
  - Thinking displayed in dim color with newline after
- ✅ Text before tool calls displayed as thinking for OpenAI-compatible APIs
  - Text before first tool call shown in dim (thinking style)
  - Text after tool calls shown in bright
  - Added OnTextStart for clean formatting between responses
- ✅ Fixed thinking/reasoning content for OpenAI-compatible APIs
  - Use openaicompat provider for non-OpenAI URLs (Ollama, LM Studio, DeepSeek, etc.)
  - openaicompat has reasoning content hooks that the native openai provider lacks
  - Debug transport now shows thinking field in addition to content and tool_calls
- ✅ Simplified text display for OpenAI-compatible APIs
  - All text now shown bright (no thinking detection)
- ✅ Skills system based on agentskills.io specification
  - Skill discovery from directories with SKILL.md files
  - YAML frontmatter parsing (name, description, license, compatibility)
  - Progressive disclosure: metadata at startup, full content on activation
  - System prompt injection with XML format for available skills
  - Skill activation via Manager.ActivateSkill()
  - Test coverage for parsing, discovery, and activation
- ✅ IOStream abstraction layer
  - Input/Output interfaces in internal/stream/stream.go
  - TLV protocol (TagText='T', TagTool='t', TagReasoning='R', TagError='E', TagUsage='U', TagSystem='S')
  - Buffered reads/writes with Flush() method
- ✅ Adaptors in internal/adaptors/
  - terminal.go - Terminal adaptor connecting stdio to agent processor
  - websocket.go - WebSocket server with per-client sessions
  - colors.go - ANSI color styling
  - chat.html - Embedded chat UI
- ✅ coreclaw-web command
  - cmd/coreclaw-web/main.go entry point
  - Per-client independent agent sessions
  - Embedded chat UI (auto-served at /)
  - WebSocket endpoint at /ws
- ✅ Fixed WebSocket cancel button only working once
  - Read loop now signals cancel via channel instead of calling cancel directly
  - Main loop listens on cancel channel and calls the current cancel function
  - This ensures cancel always works regardless of context recreation

### Architecture
- **Provider Types**: `anthropic` (native Anthropic API), `openai` (OpenAI-compatible)
- **Tool**: posix_shell (executes shell commands)
- **Framework**: charm.land/fantasy
- **UI Styling**: Raw ANSI escape codes (lightweight, no padding)
- **Stream Protocol**: TLV (Tag-Length-Value) for structured output

### Code Structure
```
internal/
  agent/       - Agent processor for streaming responses
  adaptors/    - Terminal and WebSocket adaptors
  config/      - CLI flags and settings parsing
  debug/       - Debug HTTP transport for API debugging
  provider/    - Provider configuration (API keys, endpoints)
  skills/      - Skills system (discovery, parsing, activation)
  stream/      - IOStream interfaces and TLV protocol
  tools/       - Tool implementations (posix_shell, read_file, write_file, activate_skill)
cmd/coreclaw-web/       - coreclaw-web entry point
main.go        - coreclaw entry point
```

### Features
- Execute posix_shell commands through the AI agent
- Multi-step conversations with tool calls
- Token usage tracking
- Error handling for command execution
- CLI-based provider configuration (no env vars)
- CLI flags: --type, --base-url, --api-key, --model, --skill
- Provider types: anthropic, openai
- Color-coded output for better readability
- Command history for interactive sessions
- Direct stdin reading for terminal input
- Proper conversation history management for multi-turn tool calls
- IOStream abstraction with TLV protocol
- Web server with WebSocket support and chat UI

### Usage
```sh
# OpenAI API
./coreclaw --type openai --base-url https://api.openai.com/v1 --api-key $OPENAI_API_KEY --model gpt-4o

# Anthropic API
./coreclaw --type anthropic --base-url https://api.Anthropic.com --api-key $ANTHROPIC_API_KEY --model claude-sonnet-4-20250514

# Local AI server (e.g., Ollama)
./coreclaw --type openai --base-url http://localhost:11434/v1 --api-key xxx --model llama3

# Run with API debug
./coreclaw --debug-api --type openai --base-url https://api.openai.com/v1 --api-key $OPENAI_API_KEY --model gpt-4o

# Run with custom system prompt
./coreclaw --system "You are a code reviewer" --type openai --base-url https://api.openai.com/v1 --api-key $OPENAI_API_KEY --model gpt-4o

# Run interactively
./coreclaw --type openai --base-url https://api.openai.com/v1 --api-key $OPENAI_API_KEY --model gpt-4o

# Run with skills
./coreclaw --skill ./skills --type openai --base-url https://api.openai.com/v1 --api-key $OPENAI_API_KEY --model gpt-4o

# Show help
./coreclaw --help
```

### coreclaw-web (WebSocket Server)
```sh
# Start WebSocket server
./coreclaw-web --type openai --base-url https://api.openai.com/v1 --api-key $OPENAI_API_KEY --model gpt-4o

# Custom address
./coreclaw-web --type anthropic --base-url https://api.anthropic.com --api-key $ANTHROPIC_API_KEY --model claude-sonnet-4-20250514 --addr :9090

# Then open http://localhost:8080 in browser
# WebSocket endpoint: ws://localhost:8080/ws
```

## Next Steps
- Add more sophisticated skills built on posix_shell tool
